After working in AI and machine learning
for over four years, I want to share
some of the resources and books and
courses that have really helped me in my
journey. As there are quite a few, I'm
going to break them down into the
following categories. Programming and
software engineering, maths and stats,
machine learning, deep learning and
LLMs, and finally AI engineering. Let's
get into it.
If you want to work in AI, you have to
have good software engineering skills
and also good programming skills. This
opinion is also backed up by Greg
Brockman, who's the current OpenAI CTO.
As the AI field is quite new, the de
facto language is still kind of up in
the air. However, in my opinion, your
best bet is to learn Python. Python is
the one that's most commonly used
nowadays when building any AI
infrastructure project. Majority of AI
jobs have been spun up from traditional
machine learning ones and in machine
learning the lingua franker as you can
say is Python and that's not changing
anytime soon. However, I will say that
the most popular current AI role is the
AI engineer which is actually a lot more
closer to software engineering than it
is to machine learning engineering. So
it may well be worth learning a back-end
language like Java, Go or Rust. I
personally use Rust in my day job. So we
can see how it's not just Python but
other languages may be used a lot in the
future for most AI jobs. But I still
recommend that you start with Python
because like I said a lot of the machine
learning infrastructure and libraries
are built around the Python ecosystem
and I don't see that changing for at
least half a decade now. There are many
courses, books, videos, you know
whatever to learn Python. But by far the
best teacher if you want to learn Python
or any programming language or literally
anything for that fact is practice. So,
even though I'm going to give you some
resources that you can use to learn
Python, don't worry too much about them
and in fact everything in this video,
just use the resources I'm going to give
you to just learn the fundamentals and
then start implementing. And that goes
for anything in the machine learning, AI
or data science field. Anyway, I
digress. And my main recommendations for
Python are the learn Python course by
free code camp. This is the first ever
Python course I took. It's 4 hours long
and teach you all the basics. I really
recommend it. Like I said, it's what I
got started with and it served me well
so far. The second one is the Python for
everybody specialization. This is
probably the most well-known Python
course, at least on the Corsera
platform, and it's probably for good
reason. People seem to really like it.
I've actually personally never taken it,
but I hear such good things about it,
and like I said, it's probably the most
popular course out there, probably for
good reason. I also used Hacker Rank and
Leak Code just to get some hands-on
experience on solving problems using
Python. And it's also very good for
interview practice. Another resource I
use quite a lot is neat code. I use this
to learn data structure algorithms and
also system design which are really
fundamental topics you need to
understand in software engineering if
you want to land a job. And finally,
another course that I've taken in kind
of like drabs is the Harvard CS50
introduction to computer science. It is
literally like the best course out there
if you literally know nothing about
computer science. It'll teach you all
the fundamentals, teach you some
languages as well. So, I really
recommend it if you're a complete
beginner.
Even though many people will argue that
you don't really need to know the
underlying maths to become or work in AI
because all the foundational models, you
don't really build models, right? You
kind of just inference them or you
import them in and you use them. So, you
don't really need to know what's going
on under the hood. Now, personally, I
don't really subscribe to that idea. I
think if you want to be a top AI
practitioner, then you should have some
understanding behind how these LLMs and
all these other generative models work
under the hood. And to understand how
these models work under the hood, you
need to study the fundamental maths. And
in my opinion, all you need is these
following three resources. The first one
is a practical statistics for data
science textbook. I've recommended this
book so much because it's probably the
best book if you want to learn stats for
data science, maths, or machine learning
I should say, and AI. It literally
covers everything and it's specifically
applied for those fields and it gives
you hands-on examples in Python. So, by
far is the best book you can get if you
want to learn statistics in those
fields. The second one is mathematics
for machine learning. Again, this one is
more on the linear algebra and calculus
side. So, in general, if you want to
learn AI or machine learning, they're
kind of three areas you need to study.
Stats, linear algebra, and calculus. The
first textbook, the one I recommended,
will study the stats. And the second
one, mathematics for machine learning,
will give you the linear algebra and
calculus side. It's quite dense, so I
don't recommend reading the whole book,
but if you learn everything in that
textbook, then your math skills will be
more than sufficient for a lifelong
career in AI and machine learning. And
finally, I recommend the course
mathematics for machine learning and
deep learning specialization. This
course is actually created from deep
learning AI who created the machine
learning and deep learning
specializations which are by far the
best courses on machine learning and
deep learning out there. So I've heard
really good things about this course and
if it's anything like those other ones
they've created then it's by far in no
way probably the best mathematics course
you can take because it's also targeted
towards those fields. That's the main
thing here. We're not learning arbitrary
maths learning maths that's directly
targeted to AI and machine learning. So,
we're learning all the relevant skills,
not just everything in the field
because, well, I mean, there's math
degrees out there, right? So, hey, take
those three resources. They're by far
and away the best ones, and it'll cover
literally all your bases. And like I
said, it's only three of them. So, you
get everything just using a handful full
of courses.
Now, let me give you a quick history
lesson. So, what most people refer to as
AI nowadays, it's not actually AI. is
actually something called generative AI
which is AI that generates images,
pictures, videos, etc. Like chat GPT, it
generates text, right? However, AI as a
concept has been around for centuries
and the current state of AI can actually
be dated back to the 1950s when the
first neural network was proposed. It
even predates that with Alan Cheuring
coining the cheering test on the idea of
computer science and thinking machines
during the Second World War. Anyway, my
point is that AI is so much broader than
people may think it is. And to be really
proficient in AI, you also have to learn
machine learning to a really good level.
The following list I'm going to give you
will cover all your fundamental
knowledge you need in machine learning.
But if you want to learn more
specialized skills like time series
analysis, convolutional neural networks,
reinforcement learning, let me know and
I'll give you some resources that I've
used in the past and also have been
recommended by other people. So the
first book I recommend is the hands-on
ML with psych learn tensorflow and
carers textbook. I've recommended this
book so many times. If you could
literally get only one book for your
whole AI machine learning career, it
would be this one. This teaches you
pretty much everything. All the
fundamentals, how to apply them, how to
code in Python, like how to implement
all these packages in Python. And it
even touches upon reinforcement
learning, LLMs and autoenccoders, like
all these complex things which again
they're more of a not fundamental level.
But this book literally covers
everything. So by far and away, if
there's one book you would want to get
from you want to buy watching this video
or course watching this video, this is
the book. You know, it's linked in
description below with like every other
textbook, but I highly recommend it. You
can probably find free versions online
if you wanted to. I just prefer having a
physical copy. But by far and away the
hands-on ML with scikitle learn
tensorflow and caras textbook is the
best book on machine learning and AI you
can get. The second resource I recommend
is the one that I took right at the
beginning of my machine learning journey
which is the machine learning
specialization course. It's taugh by
Andrew and is by far and away like
taught by the best one of the best AI ML
researchers and it's probably one of the
best courses out there. It's probably
one of the mo the oldest courses. I
think it originally came out in 2012,
but it's phenomenal. I really recommend
it. I took it and it's done wonders for
my career. I highly like I said I can't
recommend it enough. It's also been
revamped and it's in Python now. When I
took it was back in Octave or Mat Lab.
So, it's even more relevant because you
actually be using Python. You'll be
using more upto-date packages and it
teach you the theory and also the
notebooks. It's just amazing. So, again
also really recommend this course.
Another one which is more for like
bedside reading is the 100page machine
learning book by Andre Bookov. Like I
said, this one is more like a bedside
reading in that it's only 100 pages. It
won't go into all the details and depth
like a bigger textbook will do, but
it'll cover like the overall concept if
that makes sense. So, it's really useful
to have as a reference text or if you
want to learn a new topic, you can open
it up, find that a section and then you
can research more about it online or
however you want to do it. But this book
is really useful like I said to have
like a reference book and also if you
can look through that textbook and know
everything in it then your knowledge is
great. And the final one is the elements
of statistical learning. This one is a
bit more kind of traditional because
it's more on statistical learning than
machine learning but the two are very
interlin. This one is very dense and
like I said it's more of a traditional
book. It's a bit drier but it goes into
a lot of the theory really really deep.
So if you want to learn a topic to a
really good understanding particularly
if it's more of a traditional machine
learning algorithm then this book is
highly recommendable for you. Now
suppose you want a proper and thorough
boot camp to learn machine learning. In
that case I recommend zero to masteries
complete AI machine learning and data
science boot camp who are kindly
sponsoring this video. It will teach you
how to become a fullyfledged machine
learning engineer this year and will
cover topics like data analysis, data
science, machine learning, Python, and
pretty much everything else you need to
secure a job in machine learning and AI.
The main reason I recommend this boot
camp and course is their focus on
building projects. Like I said earlier,
the only real way to learn something is
through consistent practice and building
and getting hands-on experience. This
course will teach you to build
applications and models like heart
disease detection app, a bulldozer price
predictor and a dog breed image
classifier and many many more. There are
also many other courses and career paths
on their platform. So I recommend
checking out and seeing what you would
like to take and what will help you on
your journey. But the best part is their
community of over 500,000 students and
instructors who will help answer any
questions and help you prepare for a
career in this field. I've literally
never seen any other platform have
anything like this. There's a reason
that Zero to Mastery have gotten over a
thousand students from zero to getting
hired, including top companies like
Meta, Google, and Nvidia. I will leave
the AI, machine learning, and data
science career path in the description
below, as well as the whole course
catalog for you to check out.
Deep learning is where all these
generative AI algorithms come from. So
you'll truly understand how things like
LLM, diffusion models, and transformers
work as well as all the other
foundational models under the hood. I
will first begin by learning PyTorch
because if you want to work in AI, you
should at least know one deep learning
library. Now in the field, there's kind
of two main libraries, TensorFlow and
PyTorch. I personally recommend PyTorch
because it's used more and by more
research companies and more papers have
written in PyTorch and it's kind of
superseding as a de facto deep learning
library over TensorFlow particularly in
recent years. PyTorch was used in about
77% of research papers published in 2021
and 92% of hugging face models are
exclusive to PyTorch. So like I said the
general trend is in the direction of
PyTorch. So if you're choosing between
PyTorch and TensorFlow, I personally
suggest you go with PyTorch. Now after
studying PyTorch, I recommend you take
the deep learning specialization. This
is the follow on from the machine
learning specialization also taught by
Andrew and it'll cover all the things
like convolutional neural networks,
recurrent neural networks, and even
touch upon LLMs. So it'll teach you all
the deep learning stuff, which is what
you need if you want to understand how
well deep learning and all these more
sophisticated models really work. After
we've got the fundamentals in deep
learning, I'd then recommend taking the
introduction to LLM's video by Andre
Kapathy. He's probably the leading
research in AI at the moment and this
1hour video will basically give you a
highle overview of where we currently
are in the Gen AI particular LLM space
and it'll set the scene for you and
basically just make you understand more
about the industry and where it's
heading. After watching that hour video,
I will then take Andre Kapathi's neural
networks zero to her course. This course
will basically get you to build PyTorch
or at least how PyTorch works under the
hood from scratch. So, it's a really
really good educational course. It'll
start quite simple with just getting you
to basically make a neural network from
scratch. But at the end, you're making a
whole GPT from scratch. So, you go from
literally zero to hero real quick all
the way from neural networks to building
GPT which is like the state-of-the-art
in the moment from scratch. No
libraries, literally just raw numpy
arrays. So, it's really really good.
Again, it kind of can be a bit
technically hard, but if you did a whole
course and really understand what's
going on, then your foundational
knowledge behind LLMs and diffusion
models and all these sophisticated
algorithms would be extraordinary. And
finally, if you want a textbook, then I
recommend the hands-on language models
textbook by Jay Alamar. For those of you
who don't know, Jay Alamar is kind of
probably wrote the most famous blog post
on transformers. It's called the
illustrated transformer and it's
probably the best explanation about
transformers and what he did is
basically took that blog post and made a
whole book out of it obviously adding
other things. So this book is probably
by the best guy who can explain
transformers to you and he wrote a
textbook. So if you really want to
understand things intuitively then this
textbook I by far and way recommend and
it's probably the only textbook at the
moment that's like really up to date on
LLMs because like I said it feels quite
new. But if you are looking for textbook
then the hands-on large language models
is the one I recommend you get.
So, if you've taken all the courses and
books I've recommended so far, you have
a really good understanding of the
current AI landscape, particularly when
it comes to things like LLMs and
Transformers and you have that
theoretical but also hands-on knowledge
as well. So, you're up to date with all
the latest going ons and you understand
what AI currently means in today's
society. Now, the real value doesn't
come from just understanding these
systems. It's being able to deploy these
models and solutions to production so
they generate business value, customer
value, whatever it may be. But the point
is these models or these information you
have in your head about these models
need to go out into production and work
for real life systems. And also if you
want to work in AI, most AI jobs now are
something called an AI engineer. And an
AI engineer is a lot closer to software
engineering than machine learning
engineering. And what I mean by that is
that if you're an AI engineer, you're
not necessarily building models from
scratch because a lot of the best models
like Llama, Claude, Chad are kind of
already built and it's very hard to beat
them because one, you haven't got the
computer resource. Two, the skills.
Three, again, the infrastructure to
train these large language models. You
just can't do locally or by yourself. So
most of the AI engineer role is simply
taking these existing foundational
modules that we call them and
implementing solutions, products and
building out the infrastructure around
them to serve customers. So you really
need to understand how you can
productionize these AI algorithms and
that's where you need to learn AI
engineering. To learn AI engineering and
how to productionize AI algorithms,
there are two books I recommend. The
first one is practical MLOps. This one
is around more how you productionize
traditional machine learning algorithms
but is very useful in getting you to
understand their underlying theory like
docker containerization
cloud systems you know all the things
you need to understand how to ship
machine learning solutions because
that's kind of like the backbone behind
shipping AI solutions right so that's
the first book I recommend and the
second one is the AI engineering
textbook now this one is raved about so
much and I can see for good reason
because the person who wrote it, Chip
Hun her name is, she's kind of like the
leading AIM ML deployment or basically
she's a leading practitioner about how
to deploy AI and ML systems. So this
book written you know by her is probably
the best book you would get out there on
AI engineering and it's literally called
AI engineering. So, these are two books
I recommend, practical MLOps and the AI
engineering textbook that'll cover all
your deployment needs and we'll also
teach you how to do hands-on examples
with deploying both machine learning
models and AI models too. So, we went
through a lot of resources in this video
and it may seem quite intimidating to
begin with, but don't worry too much. I
mean, these resources are ones I've used
over my journey and I've been studying
this field for over 4 years and even so,
I haven't gone through every single
textbook end to end. The point is don't
over complicate it. If you want to learn
something, just pick one resources and
start with it. But you certainly don't
have to go through everything end to end
like read every word on the textbook.
Just learn the things that most relevant
to you and then apply them and that's
how you learn like I said at the
beginning. So I wish you luck in your AI
journey and I'll leave you by this tweet
by Andre Kapathy which perfectly
summarizes how to learn and study AI,
how to become expert at anything. One,
iteratively take on concrete projects
and accomplish them depthwise. Learning
on demand. Don't learn bottom up
breathwise. Two, teach summarize
everything you learn in your own words.
Three, only compare yourself to younger
you never to others. I think that last
point is the most important thing you
can take from this video and just go
forth and happy learning. Oh, and one
more thing. If you're after for some
personalized coaching or like tailored
advice, then I offer one-to-one coaching
packages, CV reviews, road maps,
basically anything that can help you get
closer to your data science or machine
learning journey. I'll leave link in
description below about all my services.
So, check that out if you're interested
in speeding up the process or if you
want some more, like I said, tailored
advice about your situation. I'm sure I
can help you.